OC Core 1.3.3 Methods and Reproducibility Companion
Alexander Yashin
2026-05-01

Contents
1 Abstract

2

2 Reader Contract

3

3 Reading Map

3

4 Reproducibility Structure and Audience

3

5 Reproducibility Method
5.1 Prerequisites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.2 Environment Lock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.3 Public Archive to Repository Mapping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.4 Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.5 Commands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.6 Replay Order . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.7 Expected Outputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.8 Failure Interpretation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.9 Artifact Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3
3
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5

6 Replay Matrix for Independent Review
6.1 Lean formal subset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6.2 Finite semantic witnesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6.3 Bounded target-blind replay QA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6.4 Simulation and adversarial simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6.5 Counterexample search . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6.6 Public payload audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5
5
5
5
6
6
6

7 Claim-to-Command Interpretation
7.1 Lean Build . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7.2 Finite Semantic Checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7.3 Validation QA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7.4 Simulation and Counterexample Search . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7.5 Public Archive Consistency Check . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6
6
6
7
7
7

8 Evidence Inputs and Outputs

7

9 Delta-Stable Verification

7

10 Reviewer Checklist

7

11 Replay Visual Route

8

1

12 Artifact Interpretation Map
12.1 Traceability Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12.2 Minimum Reproducibility Interpretation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12.3 What a Failed Replay Means . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8
8
8
8

13 Worked Audit Walk-Through

9

14 Protocol Matrix

9

15 Domain-Lane Interpretation

10

16 Independent Rebuild Expectation

10

17 Reviewer Burden and Author Burden

11

18 Audit Decision Rules
11
18.1 Evidence Reading Examples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
18.2 Minimum Independent Scientific Review Packet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
19 Visual Route - Replay Route Figures

12

20 Related Work and Comparator Boundary

14

21 Observed Reproducibility Bill of Materials
15
21.1 Public Output Paths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
22 Claim Boundary and Research Limits

16

23 Data and Source Authority Notes

16

24 Environment Version Capture

16

Ontology of Continua
Document role. Reproducibility, validation, and audit-navigation companion
Author. Alexander Yashin, Independent Researcher, ORCID 0009-0008-6166-0914.
Research instrument. Logion is the research-instrument and institute-automation system used to prepare,
check, package, and audit the work; it is not an author.
Methodological framework. ESTRA is the methodological framework used in the work; it is not an author
or aﬀiliation.
Version. Version 1.3.3; tag v1.3.3; release date 2026-05-01.
DOI. 10.5281/zenodo.19965913.
Zenodo record. https://zenodo.org/records/19965913.
Keywords. Ontology of Continua; typed model core; formal methods; proof governance; finite semantic checks;
target-blind replay QA; reproducible research; scientific release engineering.
Dedication. Dedicated to my dear wife Maria, without whom this work would have been impossible.

1 Abstract
Abstract. This companion explains how formal, finite-model, simulation, target-blind replay, checksum, and
package checks relate to scientific claims. It turns commands and evidence files into a reproducibility method
with explicit failure interpretation.

2

2 Reader Contract
Reader Orientation. This companion is the independent replay manual. It tells a reviewer which command
checks which claim surface and how to interpret a mismatch.
Scope. The methods text does not expand the theory; it binds commands, inputs, outputs, hashes, dependency
expectations, and claim consequences. The release promotes evidence-bound model-core claims and excludes
unsupported complete scientific coverage or unrestricted cross-science comparison claims.
Reading order. Read the environment section, then the replay matrix, then the command narratives, then
failure interpretation and checksum binding.
Recommended reader path. Read the environment section, then the replay matrix, then the command
narratives, then failure interpretation and checksum binding.

3 Reading Map
This reading map is document-specific. The generated PDF table of contents gives page locations; the steps
below state what the reader should do with each section.
1. Reproducibility method. Check the environment and dependency expectations.
2. Environment and inputs. Map each command to inputs, outputs, hashes, and claim impact.
3. Command replay. Run formal and finite checks before empirical replay.
4. Expected outputs and hashes. Interpret validation and simulation outputs locally.
5. Failure interpretation. Use failure interpretation to route defects to the right claim layer.
6. Claim affected by each check. Confirm checksum and archive identity after replay.

4 Reproducibility Structure and Audience
Purpose and role. This document is written for reviewers who want to replay the evidence locally. It exists
to turn the release evidence into an executable methods protocol, so the opening pages identify the intended
reader before they introduce formal claims.
Construction and order. The argument is organized as environment, archive layout, commands, inputs, outputs,
expected hashes, and failure interpretation. The methods companion is procedural prose: each replay or check
is tied to the claim class it can support or reopen.
The teaching obligation is that a reader should be able to decide which claim is threatened by each failed command. The current research support is the bounded OC Core 1.3.3 model-core stack: typed model, theorem and
proof route, Lean subset, finite semantic witnesses, bounded replay rows, comparator positioning, phenomenon
coverage, negative controls, falsifiers, and adversarial review. For the methods companion, the support stack is
translated into replay inputs, expected outputs, and failure interpretation.
The document therefore states what the reader should learn from the evidence and where that evidence stops.
It does not use release-readiness language as a substitute for scientific explanation, and it does not claim
unsupported full-science completion.

5 Reproducibility Method
This companion is a methods guide, not the exhaustive finite-case register. The full machine-readable register is
in the public evidence package; the prose here explains how a reviewer should replay the evidence and interpret
failures.

5.1 Prerequisites
A reviewer needs two objects with different roles: the public release archive for curated evidence and citation, and
a full repository checkout at tag v1.3.3 for executable command replay. The Zenodo public zip is intentionally

3

curated; it is not a complete source checkout and should not be mistaken for the runner tree. Network access is
not required for replaying already-pinned public evidence once the repository checkout and public archive have
been downloaded.
Canonical source checkout route: clone the public repository, then check out the exact release tag. The
canonical repository is https://github.com/alexanderyashin/ontology-of-continua-core-main. A reviewer may use git clone https://github.com/alexanderyashin/ontology-of-continua-core-main.git,
cd ontology-of-continua-core-main, and git checkout v1.3.3. The public archive DOI identifies the
citable release object; the repository tag identifies the executable replay tree. The methods audit stops if those
two identities disagree.

5.2 Environment Lock
The replay environment is treated as an explicit artifact boundary. The public archive records the repository
manifest, checksums, Lean source, Lean build certificate, finite-model input facts, finite-model output attestation, target-blind table, validation report, simulation reports, and public payload suitability report. A reviewer
should compare local command outputs with those named artifacts before interpreting scientific meaning.
The minimum local toolchain is Python 3, Pandoc with XeLaTeX for public PDF regeneration, Poppler
pdftotext for PDF text audit, and Lean/Lake for the formal subset. Exact local package versions are not
used as scientific evidence; they are replay conditions. If a tool version changes an output hash, the mismatch
is a reproducibility finding until explained by a regenerated and audited artifact.

5.3 Public Archive to Repository Mapping
The public archive contains the human PDFs, curated evidence projections, metadata, checksums, and the release
zip. The repository checkout contains executable directories such as formal/lean, proofs, validation, simulations,
falsification, tools, and release_machine. A reviewer should use the archive to identify the published claim and
checksum state, then use the checkout to run the commands against the same tag. If the archive and checkout
disagree on version, DOI, manifest, or checksum, the replay stops at an archive-integrity finding before scientific
interpretation begins.

5.4 Inputs
The replay inputs are the Lean source and certificate, theorem/proof registers, finite-model input facts, bounded
numeric tables, validation reports, comparator registers, adversarial-review summaries, public checksums, and
release metadata.

5.5 Commands
Run the replay from the repository root. The bounded public replay path is:
lake build OC133V12
python proofs/finite_model_checks/run_finite_model_checks.py
python validation/run_all.py --qa-only
python simulations/run_all.py --write-report
python simulations/adversarial/run_all.py
python falsification/counterexample_search/run_counterexample_search.py
python tools/oc133_public_release_payload.py --check
The expected outputs are the Lean certificate, finite-model report, replay QA report, simulation reports, adversarial simulation report, counterexample report, public payload suitability report, public zip checksum, and
PDF text-audit files named in the manifest.

5.6 Replay Order
1. Build the Lean subset and inspect the Lean certificate.

4

2. Run the finite-model semantic checker and confirm that positive witnesses and negative controls separate
as declared by the theorem boundary.
3. Run replay QA for bounded target-blind artifact-integrity and reconstruction examples.
4. Compare generated checksums with the public checksum manifest.
5. Treat any mismatch, parse failure, stale hash, unsupported claim, or publication-permission mismatch as
a localized scientific or archive-integrity defect.

5.7 Expected Outputs
Expected outputs are a passing Lean certificate, a finite-model report with zero failures, replay QA rows with
recorded residuals and falsifiers, simulation reports, a checksum manifest matching the archive, and no stale
or private-path public-surface findings. If a command changes a generated artifact, the release is replayed and
checksums are recomputed; if it changes nothing, delta-stable verification prevents downstream churn.

5.8 Failure Interpretation
A proof failure attacks a formal claim boundary. A finite-model mismatch attacks the executable semantic
witness. A validation mismatch attacks a bounded replay row, not a unrestricted domain law. A checksum
mismatch attacks package integrity. These failures are intentionally separated so that reviewers can identify the
exact class of defect.

5.9 Artifact Map
Proof artifacts live under proofs/ and formal/lean/; numeric replay artifacts live under validation/
and reports/; reviewer artifacts live under review/ and reviews/; publication artifacts live under
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/. The public zip carries sanitized evidence projections for external replay.

6 Replay Matrix for Independent Review
This matrix is written in prose rather than raw table syntax so it remains readable in the PDF text extraction.
Each item names the command, input files, output files, expected hash source, and claim consequence.

6.1 Lean formal subset
Command: lake build OC133V12. Inputs: formal/lean/OC133V12.lean and the Lake project files. Outputs:
formal/lean/LEAN_BUILD_CERTIFICATE_1_3_3.json and the local Lake build result. Hash source: public
checksum manifest and the Lean certificate hash recorded in the evidence package. Failure meaning: theorem
claims citing the Lean subset are reopened until the declaration, proof boundary, or toolchain mismatch is
repaired.

6.2 Finite semantic witnesses
Command: python proofs/finite_model_checks/run_finite_model_checks.py.
Inputs: repository path
proofs/finite_model_checks/OC133_FINITE_MODEL_INPUTS.json and related finite-model runner code.
Outputs: finite-model semantic report and the public finite-model output attestation. Hash source: checksums.txt, manifest.json, and the public evidence-package projection. Failure meaning: the theorem or semantic
witness family named by the failing case is reopened; the whole model is not silently promoted.

6.3 Bounded target-blind replay QA
Command: python validation/run_all.py --qa-only. Inputs:
• repository path validation/target_blind/OC133_TARGET_BLIND_PREDICTION_TABLE.json;
public evidence path evidence/validation__target_blind__OC133_TARGET_BLIND_PREDICTION_TABLE.json
• repository path validation/numeric_replay_qa/OC133_NUMERIC_REPLAY_QA_TABLE.json

5

• public evidence projection evidence/validation__target_blind__OC133_TARGET_BLIND_PREDICTION_TABLE.json.
Outputs:
• repository path reports/OC_CORE_1_3_3_DOMAIN_VALIDATION_REPORT.json; public evidence
path evidence/reports__OC_CORE_1_3_3_DOMAIN_VALIDATION_REPORT.json
• the target-blind replay table
• the numeric replay QA table. Hash source: public checksum manifest, domain evidence-boundary report
hash, and replay-table hash. Failure meaning: the affected replay row loses promotion; comparative or
empirical wording depending on that row must be narrowed.

6.4 Simulation and adversarial simulation
Command: python simulations/run_all.py --write-report; python simulations/adversarial/run_all.py.
Inputs: simulations, adversarial simulation fixtures, and declared public model assumptions. Outputs: simulation reports and adversarial simulation summaries. Hash source: public package manifest and generated
report checksums. Failure meaning: any claim that cites the affected simulation becomes provisional until the
simulation report is repaired or the claim is demoted.

6.5 Counterexample search
Command: python falsification/counterexample_search/run_counterexample_search.py. Inputs: falsification/counterexample_search fixtures and declared theorem boundaries. Outputs: counterexample-search
report with survivor or no-survivor status under the scoped. Hash source: public evidence package and
checksums.txt. Failure meaning: a surviving counterexample reopens the exact claim boundary named by the
search configuration.

6.6 Public payload audit
Command: python tools/oc133_public_release_payload.py --check. Inputs: public PDFs, public
evidence package, metadata, checksums, DOI parameters, and known-error patterns. Outputs: PUBLIC_PAYLOAD_SUITABILITY_1.3.3_latest.json and PDF text-audit files. Hash source: public payload
suitability report and generated archive checksum. Failure meaning: publication is stopped until the
public-surface, archive, metadata, or claim-boundary defect is repaired.
A reviewer should read this matrix before running the commands. It states which scientific claim layer is
threatened by each failure, so replay results do not collapse into an undifferentiated build status.

7 Claim-to-Command Interpretation
The methods companion must do more than name commands. Each replay command has a scientific role, an
expected artifact, and a failure interpretation. This prevents a reviewer from treating the reproducibility path
as an opaque build script.

7.1 Lean Build
lake build OC133V12 checks the selected formal subset. A failure here does not merely indicate a tooling issue:
it threatens every public theorem boundary that cites the Lean subset as support. The repair route is to inspect
the Lean declaration, the theorem inventory binding, and the proof sheet assumption set before re-running the
build.

7.2 Finite Semantic Checks
python proofs/finite_model_checks/run_finite_model_checks.py evaluates finite model facts independently from claimed verdict labels. The expected output is a report in which positive witnesses pass and mutation or tamper controls fail as designed. A mismatch threatens the semantic witness route for K0 resolution,
lifecycle status, boundary classification, hybrid behavior, K-level transition, and minimality claims.
6

7.3 Validation QA
python validation/run_all.py --qa-only checks target-blind and numeric replay rows. A passing result
means the row has the required formula, snapshot reference, split, prediction, observation, uncertainty, comparator, residual, negative control, falsifier, and replay hash. It does not mean that the whole scientific domain
has been proved; it means the bounded public replay claim is internally auditable.

7.4 Simulation and Counterexample Search
The simulation and adversarial-simulation commands check whether the computational examples behave consistently with the stated model boundaries. The counterexample search is the negative side of the same method:
it tries to find cases that break promoted assumptions. A serious counterexample does not get hidden in prose;
it reopens the relevant claim boundary and routes the release back to Research and Review.

7.5 Public Archive Consistency Check
python tools/oc133_public_release_payload.py --check checks public PDFs, monograph integration, positive mission fulfillment, scientific/process state, editorial adversarial review, public surface language, known
error regression, zip contents, and destination-ready metadata. It is expected to be delta-stable when inputs
have not changed.

8 Evidence Inputs and Outputs
Every replay input has a provenance role. Lean sources and certificates support formal claims. Proof sheets
support theorem assumptions and counterexample boundaries. Finite-model facts support semantic witnesses.
Target-blind tables support bounded replay QA and artifact-integrity examples. Domain evidence-boundary
reports keep broad validation claims quarantined. Comparator registers support prior-art positioning. Reviewer
summaries support adversarial closure. Checksums and manifests support archive integrity.
Every replay output must be interpreted at the same level as its input. A passing formal check supports formal
consistency under declared assumptions; it is not an empirical result. A passing target-blind row supports a
reconstruction claim; it is not a proof of unrestricted domain coverage. A passing public payload audit supports
release presentation and packaging; it is not a substitute for theorem or data evidence.

9 Delta-Stable Verification
Verification should not dirty the release tree when no meaningful input changed. If a command rewrites a
tracked artifact with identical semantic content, the release process treats that as a process-quality defect. If a
command produces a real semantic delta, downstream packaging is triggered deliberately and the new checksum
state is recorded. This prevents the release process from fighting itself while preserving strict reproducibility.

10 Reviewer Checklist
A methods reviewer can audit the release by asking seven questions. First, does each promoted claim have a
replay or proof route? Second, does each command produce the declared artifact? Third, are negative controls
and falsifiers present where the claim requires them? Fourth, are broad domain claims kept out of the promoted
surface? Fifth, do checksums bind the public archive? Sixth, does a repeated verification pass leave the tree
unchanged when there is no semantic delta? Seventh, does any failure route to a named claim boundary rather
than disappearing into a generic build status?
Only if those questions are answerable from the public artifacts should the methods companion be considered
publication-grade. That is why this PDF includes the interpretation protocol in prose rather than leaving
readers with a list of commands and filenames.

7

11 Replay Visual Route
The methods companion uses visual route panels as operational diagrams. They are not decorative figures:
the tuple panel tells the reader what object the replay concerns, the lifecycle panel tells the reader which
status transitions are being tested, the K-level panel explains transition witnesses, the boundary panel explains
classifier and falsifier checks, and the evidence panel shows how a claim moves from prose to proof, finite witness,
numeric row, and reviewer reopening condition.

12 Artifact Interpretation Map
The methods reader should treat the public archive as a layered argument. The master monograph is the longform scientific claim. The journal core is the article-length route. The methods companion is the replay route.
The reviewer map is the adversarial route. The public zip is the evidence bundle. The manifest and checksum
files bind the file set. A defect in one layer has a different meaning from a defect in another layer, so the review
protocol separates them rather than collapsing everything into a single pass/fail label.
If the master monograph fails, the scientific exposition itself is defective even if all machine files exist. If the
journal core fails, the article-facing argument is not ready for editors even if the monograph is long. If the
methods companion fails, the evidence is not reviewable even if the claims are plausible. If the reviewer map
fails, hostile objections are not answered in public-facing form. If the public zip fails, the archive cannot be
trusted as a reproducibility object. The release is acceptable only when all layers agree.

12.1 Traceability Requirements
Traceability is bidirectional. A claim in prose must point to an evidence route, and an evidence route must
point back to the claim it supports. A theorem identifier must be meaningful in the theorem inventory, proof
sheet, Lean subset where applicable, finite witness where applicable, and public explanation. A numeric row
must be meaningful in the target-blind table, validation report, methods narrative, and claim boundary. A
reviewer objection must name the claim under attack and cite the evidence that answers it.
The practical rule is simple: no orphan claims and no orphan evidence. An orphan claim is a public statement
with no proof, data, simulation, comparator, or boundary. Orphan evidence is a file or row whose scientific role
is not explained to the reader. Both are publication defects. The methods companion gives reviewers the route
for detecting them before a public archive is updated.

12.2 Minimum Reproducibility Interpretation
Reproducibility is interpreted at four levels. Level one is file integrity: assets match checksums and the zip
contains the expected curated files. Level two is command replay: the listed commands run and produce the
expected reports. Level three is semantic replay: positive examples and negative controls separate according
to the claim boundary. Level four is public interpretation: the reader can understand what the replay result
means without reverse-engineering internal machinery.
A release can pass level one and still fail as science if it only archives files. It can pass level two and still fail as
argument if the text does not connect outputs to claims. It can pass level three and still fail as publication if
the public documents are unreadable. It can pass level four only when the archive, commands, semantics, and
prose reinforce one another. That is the standard applied to OC Core 1.3.3.

12.3 What a Failed Replay Means
A failed replay is not automatically a refutation of the whole model. It is a localized signal. The reviewer should
first identify the artifact class, then the claim boundary, then the dependency path, then the appropriate repair
route. A Lean failure routes to formalization and proof assumptions. A finite semantic failure routes to witness
construction and theorem boundary. A numeric replay failure routes to data snapshot, formula, uncertainty,
comparator, and falsifier review. A public presentation failure routes to manuscript integration, editorial review,
metadata, or packaging.

8

This localization matters because it keeps the release scientifically honest. The public claim surface is strong
only where the evidence is strong. When the evidence is bounded, the public wording is bounded. When the
evidence fails, the claim reopens. The methods companion therefore protects ambition by making ambition
testable rather than by weakening it into vague language.

13 Worked Audit Walk-Through
A reviewer who wants a concrete path can start with T133-K0-RES. The reviewer reads the theorem statement
in the monograph, checks that the claim boundary is bounded, opens the proof sheet for assumptions and
counterexample boundary, confirms that the Lean subset or finite witness reference is not empty, then runs the
finite semantic checker. If the finite report shows that the declared witness passes and that tampered or inert
variants fail as expected, the reviewer has a localized reason to accept the bounded K0-support claim. If any
part of the route is missing, the claim is not publication-ready.
The same pattern applies to a numeric row. The reviewer selects a lane, reads the formula and support
scope, verifies that the dataset snapshot reference exists, checks the target-blind split, compares predicted value,
observed value, uncertainty, residual, and comparator residual, then inspects the negative control and falsifier.
The row supports only the bounded reconstruction claim named in the table. It does not become evidence for
total domain closure unless a separate domain-validation artifact proves that stronger statement.
For prior art, the reviewer should not ask whether OC has no predecessors. That would be a weak and
unscientific question. The correct question is whether the release identifies the relevant predecessor families,
states overlap honestly, names residual delta precisely, and prevents that residual delta from inflating into a
priority or unrestricted-comparison claim. The comparator rows and novelty register are therefore read as
boundaries on external speech as much as evidence for novelty.
For editorial quality, the reviewer should open the PDF directly, not only the manifest. The document must
have title page, dedication, version, DOI, abstract, reader contract, table of contents, explanatory paragraphs,
transition language, visual anchors, literature synthesis, claim boundary, and a clear route from prose to evidence.
If the first visible experience is metadata or if the text is a raw register dump, the methods replay can pass and
the release can still fail as a scientific publication.
This walk-through is intentionally repetitive at the method level because it encodes the invariant for future
releases: select a claim, locate its evidence, replay or inspect the evidence, check the negative boundary, compare against prior art, and read the public wording against that support. The invariant applies to formal,
computational, empirical, editorial, and release-metadata layers alike.

14 Protocol Matrix
The replay protocol is organized as a matrix rather than a linear checklist. The rows are formal proof, finite
semantic witness, target-blind replay QA, simulation, adversarial simulation, counterexample search, publicpayload audit, and archive checksum verification. The columns are input, command, expected artifact, scientific
interpretation, failure meaning, and repair owner. A row is reviewable only when all six columns can be read
from the public artifacts without consulting private notes.

Protocol row

Input class

Expected artifact

Lean subset

typed formal source

build certificate

Finite semantics

raw finite model
facts

output attestation

9

Scientific
interpretation
selected formal
declarations
type-check under
declared
assumptions
witnesses and
tamper controls
separate
semantically

Failure route
formalization and
proof boundary

theorem witness
and evaluator
repair

Scientific
interpretation

Protocol row

Input class

Expected artifact

Replay QA

pinned numeric
rows

validation report

bounded
reconstruction row
is auditable

Simulation

executable
examples

simulation report

Counterexample
search

adversarial fixtures

counterexample
report

Public payload

manuscript and
metadata sources

suitability report

examples remain
within declared
model behavior
promoted boundary
resists known
search patterns
public archive is
readable and
claim-bounded

Failure route
data, formula,
uncertainty,
comparator, or
falsifier repair
model assumption
or example repair
claim reopening or
proof/data repair
editorial, packaging,
or metadata repair

The matrix is deliberately conservative. It does not let a strong result in one row compensate for a missing row
elsewhere. A theorem can be formally tidy and still need a finite witness if the public claim cites one. A numeric
row can replay cleanly and still fail if the public prose describes it as whole-domain validation. A package can
be checksummed and still fail if the first public reading experience is a metadata dump.

15 Domain-Lane Interpretation
The empirical lanes in this release are read as bounded domain-lane examples. Each lane has to name a source
snapshot, reconstruction formula, prediction or reconstruction target, observed value, uncertainty or residual,
comparator, negative control, falsifier, and replay hash. The lane supports the claim that the released artifact
can be audited at that target boundary. It does not by itself prove that the entire domain is numerically solved.
A physics row therefore has a different force from a chemistry row, a biology row, a systems row, or a mathematics
row. The methods companion keeps these forces separated. Physics and chemistry rows are closer to numerical
reconstruction examples; biological and systems rows are more exposed to modeling assumptions; mathematics
rows are formal or finite-model anchors rather than empirical measurements. The public claim boundary must
reflect those differences.
The reader should also distinguish target-blind replay from prospective prediction. Target-blind replay can
prevent a file from being a circular restatement of its target, but it is still bounded by the chosen snapshot,
split rule, formula, and comparator. Prospective prediction would require a future target and a pre-registered
scoring rule. The release therefore treats prospective prediction as a future research extension unless an artifact
explicitly provides it.

16 Independent Rebuild Expectation
A serious reviewer should be able to rebuild the public evidence route independently. Independence here does
not mean rewriting the whole theory. It means that the reviewer can take the public archive, rebuild the formal
subset, replay the finite semantic checks, inspect numeric rows, compare checksums, and confirm that the public
PDFs describe the same claim boundaries as the evidence files. The release fails if the reviewer has to infer
missing links from private process memory.
The release also fails if verification changes the object being verified without a declared semantic delta. Reproducibility is not only about re-running commands; it is also about preventing the release process from
manufacturing new artifacts during inspection. When a real input changes, regeneration is correct. When no
meaningful input changes, the correct result is a clean repeat check.

10

17 Reviewer Burden and Author Burden
The methods standard assigns burden carefully. The reviewer is responsible for checking the declared evidence
route and for naming the exact failure class if a replay or interpretation fails. The author is responsible for
making that route available, readable, bounded, and independently inspectable. The reviewer should not have
to discover whether Logion is an author, a research instrument, or a release process; the public metadata and
front matter must make those entity roles explicit.
The author burden is stricter for ambitious claims. A modest claim may need only a clear definition and
a local example. A theorem claim needs assumptions, proof route, and boundary. A computational claim
needs executable semantics and negative controls. An empirical claim needs data provenance, split, formula,
comparator, residual, uncertainty, negative control, falsifier, and replay hash. A publication-readiness claim
needs a human-readable manuscript set, editorial review, archive metadata, and post-release verification.
This is why the methods companion belongs in the public release. It teaches reviewers how to interpret the
evidence without letting the evidence become a pile of files. The method is itself part of the scientific object: it
states what kind of support the release has, what kind of support it does not yet have, and what would have to
happen for the claim boundary to move.

18 Audit Decision Rules
The audit decision rules are intentionally explicit because otherwise reviewers and release operators can talk
past one another. A formal failure blocks theorem promotion. A semantic witness failure blocks the theorem
route that cites that witness. A numeric residual outside the declared tolerance blocks the replay row, not the
whole model, unless the promoted claim depends on that row as unrestricted evidence. An absent comparator
blocks any comparative wording. An absent negative control blocks empirical promotion. Defective front matter
or an unreadable first page blocks publication even when the scientific files exist.
These rules prevent false escalation and false comfort. False escalation would treat a local replay mismatch
as refutation of every OC claim. False comfort would treat a green checksum as proof that the manuscript is
scientifically persuasive. The release needs neither habit. It needs exact routing: which claim is attacked, which
evidence object is implicated, which standard is violated, and which capability must repair it.

18.1 Evidence Reading Examples
Example one is a finite semantic witness. The reader starts with the public theorem identifier, verifies that the
proof sheet names assumptions, checks the finite-model case identifier, then confirms that the evaluator derives
the result from raw model facts. If changing a label without changing facts changes the result, the evaluator is
defective. If changing the required facts changes the result as expected, the witness is meaningful.
Example two is a bounded replay row. The reader starts with the lane and target, then reads the formula,
pinned snapshot, split, predicted value, observed value, uncertainty, comparator, residual, negative control,
falsifier, and replay hash. The row earns only the scope written in the claim boundary. If the public text says
more than the row supports, the text is wrong even when the row itself is technically reproducible.
Example three is a prior-art comparison. The reader starts with a comparator family, checks the overlap
statement, asks whether the claimed residual difference is specific, then verifies that the release does not infer
absence, priority, or unrestricted comparative victory from a narrow source sample. The comparison is strong
when it is exact and bounded. It is weak when it becomes a slogan.

18.2 Minimum Independent Scientific Review Packet
A reviewer who does not want to rebuild every artifact can still perform a minimum independent review.
The minimum packet is the master monograph, journal core, methods companion, reviewer map, theorem registry, proof sheets, Lean source, finite-model input and output files, target-blind replay table, domain evidenceboundary report, comparator register, public checksum file, and Zenodo/GitHub metadata. Those objects must
agree on version, DOI, claim boundary, author/instrument roles, and file identity.

11

Agreement is checked materially, not by trust. The version string must be the same. The DOI must identify
the same record. The checksum must match the downloaded file. The claim wording must match the evidence
class. The proof route must be named where theorem language appears. The empirical route must be named
where replay language appears. The journal package language must not imply submission unless a separate
submission action actually occurred.
This minimum packet is the bridge between a full rebuild and a first editorial screen. It lets a journal editor, archive curator, or hostile reader detect the most serious release defects without pretending that a quick
inspection is the same as full scientific acceptance.

19 Visual Route - Replay Route Figures
The methods companion uses the same routes as audit diagrams: each rendered image states what has to be
replayed or inspected.

Figure 1: Conceptual diagram of typed OC continuum components
Figure 1. The typed-continuum diagram connects the basic object vocabulary to the place where a public claim
must be located.

Figure 2: Conceptual diagram of lifecycle status and identity boundaries
Figure 2. The lifecycle diagram separates liveness, death, residue, rebirth, and identity preservation.

Figure 3: Conceptual diagram of K-level witness and demotion checks
12

Figure 3. The K-level diagram separates witness-bearing transitions from inert observables that must be demoted.

Figure 4: Conceptual diagram of boundary separation and falsifier checks
Figure 4. The boundary diagram links classifier, separation, interface, negative control, and falsifier.

Figure 5: Conceptual diagram linking public claims to evidence and reopening conditions
Figure 5. The evidence diagram shows how a statement becomes reviewable instead of remaining a slogan.

Figure 6: Conceptual diagram of bounded replay and empirical claim limits
Figure 6. The replay-boundary diagram shows why a numeric row is a bounded claim, not a whole-domain
proof.
Tuple route. Carrier, realization, liveness, residue, boundary, and morphism prevent the tuple from being
treated as a loose metaphor.
Lifecycle route. Live state, death condition, residue evidence, rebirth candidate, and identity boundary prevent
residue from being confused with identity continuation.
K-level route. Lower model, added observable, retained witness, reduction test, and lawful demotion prevent
hierarchy from being added without a witness.
Evidence route. Claim, assumptions, proof sheet, Lean or finite witness, replay row where applicable, and
reopening condition prevent claims from being promoted without support.
13

Replay route. Source, formula, comparator, residual, negative control, and falsifier prevent numeric evidence
from being over-read.
Route A: Tuple map Carrier -> realization -> liveness -> residue -> boundary -> morphism. The tuple is
read left to right before theorem obligations are inspected.
Review use 1. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.
Route B: Lifecycle route Live state -> death condition -> residue evidence -> rebirth candidate -> identity
boundary. A failed invariant or residue mismatch blocks identity continuation.
Review use 2. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.
Route C: K-level route Lower model + added observable -> transition witness -> retained distinction test
-> demotion when the observable is inert.
Review use 3. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.
Route D: Boundary route Classifier boundary -> observable separation -> negative control -> falsifier.
Metric thresholds are special cases, not the whole boundary theory.
Review use 4. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.
Route E: Evidence route Claim -> assumptions -> proof sheet -> Lean subset or finite witness -> numeric
replay row when applicable -> reviewer reopening condition.
Review use 5. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.
Route F: Replay boundary Pinned source -> formula -> comparator -> residual -> negative control ->
falsifier. A numeric result carries only the claim whose replay boundary is complete.
Review use 6. The route points to the relevant definition, evidence artifact, and reopening condition.

20 Related Work and Comparator Boundary
The methods companion treats prior art as a reproducibility boundary: comparison claims require source rows,
not general confidence. The release does not claim absence of predecessors, global priority, or unrestricted
comparative claim over modern science. Its defensible public contribution is narrower: it integrates typed
model-core claims, proof sheets, finite semantic witnesses, bounded numeric replay QA, comparator rows, and
explicit reopening conditions into one auditable scientific release surface.
Required comparator family: Formal ontology / BFO and ontology engineering. Boundary: OC does not
promote Logion or ESTRA as authors and does not treat ontology-engineering vocabulary as a novelty claim.
The release contribution is the bounded continuum model and its evidence governance.
Required comparator family: Mereology and mereotopology. Boundary: OC does not claim to invent part-whole
or boundary theory. It uses typed boundaries, residue relations, and classifier rules as the release-local way to
keep boundary claims falsifiable.
Required comparator family: Process ontology and continuity. Boundary: OC does not settle every processmetaphysical debate. It states lifecycle, death, residue, rebirth, and identity-continuation boundaries under
declared assumptions.
Required comparator family: Formal logic, category theory, type theory, and proof assistants. Boundary: OC
uses these traditions as comparison and implementation context; a Lean declaration or finite witness supports
only the exact bounded statement it encodes.
Comparator tradition: General System Theory. Source anchor: Ludwig von Bertalanffy, General System Theory.
OC accepts the overlap: general systems framing and cross-domain system concepts. The bounded residual
delta for this release is release-bound typed theorem register plus executable finite witnesses, numeric replay
QA, falsifier registry, and authorization-bounded release-governed publication controls. The boundary is equally
important: OC must not claim invention of general systems theory or organized-whole analysis.

14

Comparator tradition: Autopoiesis. Source anchor: Maturana and Varela, Autopoiesis and Cognition. OC
accepts the overlap: autopoietic organization of living systems. The bounded residual delta for this release is
typed distinction between liveness, death, residue, rebirth, and identity invariants. The boundary is equally
important: OC must not claim invention of autopoiesis or self-producing organization.
Comparator tradition: Dynamical Systems. Source anchor: Encyclopedia of Mathematics, Dynamical system.
OC accepts the overlap: mathematical dynamical-system state evolution. The bounded residual delta for this
release explicitly blocks differentiating non-smooth proof/rewrite states unless smooth charts are declared. The
boundary is equally important: OC must not claim invention of state spaces, flows, or attractor-style dynamics.
Comparator tradition: Category and Topos Formalisms. Source anchor: nLab, topos. OC accepts the overlap:
category/topos formalisms and internal logic. The bounded residual delta for this release is the use of typed
morphism discipline to police public scientific claims, without claiming invention of category theory. The
boundary is equally important: OC must not claim invention of typed objects, morphisms, or topoi.
Comparator tradition: RAF Theory. Source anchor: Hordijk and Steel, Autocatalytic sets and boundaries. OC
accepts the overlap: RAF formalization of autocatalytic sets and boundary discussion. The bounded residual
delta for this release is the typed placement of RAF-like closure as one K-level route with explicit reduction
and demotion checks, without replacing RAF theory. The boundary is equally important: OC must not claim
invention of autocatalytic-set closure.
Comparator tradition: Complexity and Information Measures. Source anchor: Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Information. OC accepts the overlap: information concepts and measures. The bounded residual
delta for this release is the release-local practice that separates historical activation from effective rank in the
release theorem inventory. The boundary is equally important: OC must not claim invention of information or
complexity measures. The full comparator matrix and source snapshots remain in the evidence package. If a
future systematic search shows that a comparator already carries the same claim at the same strength, the OC
public wording must be demoted or rewritten rather than defended by novelty rhetoric.

21 Observed Reproducibility Bill of Materials
This section records the build-host toolchain used to generate this public package. Long values are rendered as
wrapped lines instead of table cells, because a public methods PDF must remain readable after PDF extraction.
Python.
Python 3.14.3
Pandoc.
pandoc 3.8.3
XeLaTeX.
MiKTeX-XeTeX 4.16 (MiKTeX 25.12)
Poppler pdftotext.
pdftotext version 24.04.0
Lean/Lake.
Lake version 5.0.0-src+7e01a1b (Lean version 4.28.0)
Git commit.
882a6ef

21.1 Public Output Paths
Master monograph. canonical long-form scientific text.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/OC_CORE_1_3_3_MASTER_MONOGRAPH_EN.pdf

15

Release guide. public landing and reading-order document.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/00_OC_CORE_1_3_3_RELEASE_GUIDE_EN.pdf
Journal core. compact article path.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/OC_CORE_1_3_3_JOURNAL_CORE_EN.pdf
Methods companion. replay and failure-interpretation protocol.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/OC_CORE_1_3_3_METHODS_AND_REPRODUCIBILITY_COMPANION_EN.pdf
Reviewer map. hostile-review route.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/OC_CORE_1_3_3_REVIEWER_ATTACK_AND_RESPONSE_MAP_EN.pdf
Public zip. archive and replay package.
releases/oc_core_1_3_3/artifacts/oc_core_1_3_3_public_release.zip
Expected hashes are not copied by hand into this paragraph; the authoritative hash surface is checksums.txt
and the public zip manifest generated in the same build. A reviewer should compare those hashes to downloaded
assets before interpreting scientific results.

22 Claim Boundary and Research Limits
OC Core 1.3.3 is a bounded external-review scientific release. It contains a typed model foundation, theorem/proof evidence, a Lean-checked subset, finite-model semantics, bounded numeric replay QA rows, comparator positioning, and adversarial-review material.
The release does not claim complete scientific coverage, unrestricted numeric closure, or unrestricted comparative
victory over contemporary science. Those statements are outside the promoted 1.3.3 public claim surface.
Journal owner-review packets are included as preparation material only. They help editors and reviewers see
how a later submission could be assembled, but they are not part of the scientific proof of the model core.

23 Data and Source Authority Notes
The methods companion treats empirical authorities as replay inputs, not as ornamental bibliography. Physics
rows refer to oﬀicial physical constants and pinned public-source snapshots. Chemistry rows refer to public
chemistry property sources and compound/property snapshots. Biology rows refer to public biological datasets
or expression snapshots. Systems rows refer to public indicator time series. Each row must keep source identity,
access or snapshot date, formula, comparator, residual, negative control, falsifier, and replay hash together.
Formal source references, data-source records, and bibliographic records are normalized in the public evidence
package and metadata files. This PDF explains how to read them during replay.

24 Environment Version Capture
A reviewer should record local versions before interpreting a mismatch: Python runtime, Lean/Lake version,
Pandoc version, XeLaTeX distribution, Poppler version, operating system, repository commit, public zip checksum, and DOI record. These values are not scientific conclusions, but they decide whether a difference is a
model defect, a replay-environment defect, or an archive-integrity defect.
Repository commit. This binds source files to public PDFs and manifests. A wrong commit means the replay
is not testing the published object.
Public zip checksum. This binds the downloaded archive to the DOI record. A mismatch is an archive-integrity
problem before it is a scientific problem.

16

Python runtime. This executes finite-model, validation, simulation, and packaging scripts. Version-sensitive
output must be recorded as a replay-environment finding.
Lean/Lake. This checks the selected formal subset. A build failure reopens theorem boundaries that cite the
formal subset.
Pandoc, XeLaTeX, and Poppler. These rebuild and audit public PDFs. Text or page-count drift is an editorial
and reproducibility finding.
This version-capture rule prevents a common false inference. A local rebuild mismatch is not automatically a
refutation of OC, but it is also not harmless. The reviewer first identifies which layer changed, then routes the
finding to the claim, evidence, archive, or editorial surface that actually depends on that layer.

17

